---
layout: post
title: The Full Methodology for OSCP Passing.
excerpt: In the last three weeks I have been wondering a few things, I was in a job interview at a very respectable place in my area, I was in my first interview which was technical, I was asked questions about WIRESHARK, understanding protocols such as TCP, LDAP, SMB2, how the MR system works, understanding Linux processes and how to identify SOCKETS , acquaintances with PS and even presented before a command that was very similar to.
tags:
- Pentest
- OSCP

---

In the last three weeks I have been wondering a few things, I was in a job interview at a very respectable place in my area, I was in my first interview which was technical, I was asked questions about WIRESHARK, understanding protocols such as TCP, LDAP, SMB2, how the MR system works, understanding Linux processes and how to identify SOCKETS , acquaintances with PS and even presented before a command that was very similar to what we have in OSCP, a kind of reverse shell.

The conversation was very fluid, the interview was virtual through Zoom, and two representatives came to the interview, one of whom is a team leader and the other a cyber team member, the conversation was good and ended well in which they explained to me what the process and the next step was, which is another interview with the organization's IT manager.

Indeed, a week after that I had a second interview with the IT manager, I was with several interviewers who are defined as senior managers, I tell you in all seriousness, that IT manager presented questions from which I understood that he had knowledge, I mainly remember that he asked me about the code I wrote in Python that should give A solution for transferring syslog information when the operator switches to transfer the information to another SIEM system.

The conversation was again fluid and an interview that was supposed to be half an hour was an hour and ten minutes, it was really good and I left with a good feeling, a week after that the recruiter called to inform that it was not certain that they would continue with me because of, what they said, "a gap between the two".

For me this was a blow, to say that I have a gap in my abilities is unreasonable, I have been in the field for 12 years in general, my managers see me as a professional writer without showing off, you can call her hahahahahahahaha and they will tell you, more than that, last month I received 3 letters of thanks From various employees at my job where they wrote to the department manager about malfunctions that had been going on for months and when I came into the picture I was able to bring about an efficient and complete solution.

So yes, I think I'm professional enough to advance in any organization, but what was said about me still left me in doubt. I remembered at that point that I hadn't finished the OSCP yet, and then it hit me, a voice in my head said to me: "You want to prove to yourself that you are a professional, finish the certification." After everything I went through in these years I tried to understand what my problem was in passing this test. I came to the conclusion that this is a systematic methodology. If I manage to build myself an orderly methodology I will probably be able to pass this test.

And here I am going to write in this post about this methodology, in fact in order to pass the test you need to hack 6 machines, 3 are part of the windows domain and another 3 individuals, one of which is a buffer overflow, my problem is the methodology, I know the commands, the actions that need to be performed, and I know Looking for good information and learning while doing it, my problem is the connection between all the pieces of the puzzle, most of the machines where I broke down and went looking for clues are machines that I just didn't look at the full picture and therefore I dug into what there is no need to dig into.

Since the way to prepare for the test is by hacking as many machines as possible, I will do it on the PG, and speaking of that there are 5 types of machines, 5 point, 8 point, 10 point, 20 point and 25 point machines.

For each type of orientation I will present an orderly methodology to order these issues. Note, in fact, the more difficult the machine is, the broader the methodology becomes. In order to build these patterns I had to hack everything in PG and the work before them is the result of that.

So hold on tight, we're starting.
